# abseqR

`abseqR` is part of the `AbSeq` pipeline, used for antibody repertoire quality
control.

`abseqR` extends [`abseqPy`](https://github.com/malhamdoosh/abseqPy) by
plotting each corresponding data file generated by `abseqPy` and
collating them into a HTML report for convenient viewing and sharing.
Additionally, `abseqR` makes it possible to __compare__ multiple
`abseqPy` analyses.

Note that `abseqR` does not need `abseqPy` to be installed for it to function,
however, the output of `abseqPy` must already be present.


# Installation

## System requisites

[pandoc](http://pandoc.org/installing.html) is highly
recommended. If `abseqR` fails to detect `pandoc` on your
system's `PATH`, it will not collate the results/plots and present
them in a neat HTML document.

> Make sure `pandoc` is at least version 1.19.2.1


## Using Bioconductor

As soon as `abseqR` is available on [Bioconductor](http://bioconductor.org/):
```r
if (!require("BiocManager"))
    install.packages("BiocManager")
BiocManager::install("abseqR")
```

## Using GitHub

It is also possible to download `abseqR` from GitHub via `devtools`:
```r
if (!require("devtools"))
    install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("malhamdoosh/abseqR")
```


# Features

`abseqR` generates numerous plots for antibody repertoire quality control analysis
and collates the results into a HTML file. 

The documentation for each plot generated by `abseqR`
can be found in this package's vignette.

In R, enter:

```{r}
browseVignettes("abseqR")
```

# Usage

Assuming `abseqPy` has completed an analysis and the output directory was
named `output`, a basic usage of `abseqR` is:

```r
library(abseqR)
abseqReport("/path/to/output")
```

Please refer to the package vignette for more advanced use cases.
